DBZ-3500 Document incremental and ad-hoc snapshot for Postgres (#2351)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/connectors/postgresql.adoc

|===

[[postgresql-adhoc-snapshot]]
==== Ad-hoc snapshot

When the initial snapshot is completed then it is not executed again as further data are acquired via streaming.

> Sometimes it would be really useful to re-execute the snapshot, either full or for only a subset of tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it would be really useful to re-execute a snapshot, either completely, or for only a subset of tables.
```

> Examples for such use cases contain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples for such use cases include:
```

* a new table was added into the list of captured tables
* some of the topics were deleted and their content needs to be rebuild
* the data were corrupted due to a configuration error

> Debezium can be requested via mechanism of {link-prefix}:{link-signalling}[signalling table] to execute the new snapshot of defined table list.
> The signal is named `execute-snapshot` and accepts message in format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debezium can be requested via the {link-prefix}:{link-signalling}[signalling table] mechanism to execute a new snapshot of a defined list of tables.
The signal is named `execute-snapshot` and accepts messages in the following format:
```

.Example of a signal record
[cols="2,2,6",options="header"]
|===
|Field | Default | Value

|`type`
|`incremental`
| The type of the snapshot to be executed. Currently only `incremental` is supported. +
See the next section for more details.

|`data-collections`
|_N/A_

> | Array of qualified table names, to be snapshotted like `schema1.table`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Array of qualified names of table to be snapshotted, for instance `schema1.table`
```

|===

An example of the signal to be triggered is

[source,sql,indent=0,subs="+attributes"]
----
INSERT INTO myschema.debezium_signal VALUES('ad-hoc-1', 'execute-snapshot', '{"data-collections": ["schema1.table1", "schema1.table2"]}')
----

[[postgresql-incremental-snapshot]]
==== Incremental snapshot

The initial snapshot is a great mechanism to obtain a consistent set of all data stored in database upfront.
Its strengths are outweighed by some negatives

* For larger datasets it can take very long to complete; hours or even days.
* The snapshot must be completed before the start of the streaming.
* Snapshot is not resumable.
If it is not completed it must be restarted from scratch.

> * New tables that are added among the captured ones later are not snapshotted.

Author: Well new in this regard means those not present in the include list at the start

To mitigate the negatives a new mechanism calle incremental snapshot has been introduced.

[NOTE]
====
Incremental snapshot can be started current only as an ad-hoc snapshot.
====

[NOTE]
====
Configuration option {link-prefix}:{link-postgresql-connector}#postgresql-property-signal-data-collection[signal.data.collection] must be set.
====

> Incremental snapshot is base on link:https://github.com/debezium/debezium-design-documents/blob/main/DDD-3.md[DDD-3] design document.

Author: @gunnarmorling I tend to disagree in this case. Not that I don't want to diminish their contribution but that's implementation detail that is unrelated to *user* docs

In this case the table is snapshotted in chunks and streaming and snapshot events are blended together.
The snaphot events are still denoted using operation `r` and the `snapshot` field in `source` info block is set to `incremental`.

.Example
[source,json,index=0]
----
{
   "before":null,
   "after": {
      "pk":"1",
      "value":"New data"
   },
   "source": {
...
      "snapshot":"incremental"
   },
   "op":"r",
   "ts_ms":"1620393591654",
   "transaction":null
}
----

The incremental snapshot events should be understand in a different way then events for the initial snapshot.
The `read` events shoudl be understand like a materialization of data in a certain period of time.
This means that contrary to initial snapshot semantics in case of incremental snapshots

* `update` and `delete` events can arrive before `read` events
* if `delete` event arrives first then `read` event is never delivered

> * if `update` event arrives first then `read` event will either not be delivered at all or it will be delivered with the updated value

Author: Well, I prefer to elaborat on it a bit more in structured way - as I suppose people to ask questions about that.
